Graduate Seminar Paper <br>
Enrique Antunano <br>

During my last year of undergraduate education, I took a biomedical circuit design course out of interest. I learned how difficult it was to differentiate noise from signals of interest in the body. Also, I realized I enjoyed circuit design for biomedical applications since the problems were challenging and I thought human biology was interesting. In my current career, there are several opportunities for firmware engineering roles at biomedical instrument manufacturers to design instruments such as MRI, ultrasound, and robotic surgery machines. Based on the research presented by Dr. Bulea, it is unlikely that a firmware designer is required since most of his work uses PID loops in the exoskeleton controllers, but that may change if the machine learning algorithms he discussed are incorporated. Thus, his talk was valuable for learning about current and future opportunities in biomedical instrument design.

The research Dr. Bulea presented was neurobotics for treating mobility disorders. For the intent of this presentation, the focus was on treating cerebral palsy (CP) which afflicts children and if untreated leads to muscle failure. The root cause of muscle failure in people with CP is the overuse of their muscles due to their gait, which discourages muscle use, and feeds a downward spiral. The neurorobotic system he and his group developed was an exoskeleton that recorded data on the gait of each patient, provided training for gait correction, and relayed patient information from the exoskeleton to an external device for further analysis. The results showed that the exoskeleton's gait correction and mobility assistance during therapy, after less than ten trials, did correct the gait of patients when the exoskeleton was not used. Although Dr. Bulea did note that rehabilitation is entrenched only if therapy is continued, the initial results are a good indication of the long-term results of the exoskeleton's performance. 

Future extensions of research between neurorobotics and pediatric rehabilitation were similarly interesting. To help improve the diagnostic ability of the exoskeleton, he discussed the initial results of using ultrasound for detecting movement intent and predicting muscle deformation. The exoskeleton can then use this information to train the patient to relearn how to use their muscles correctly. Although the test results were good, future work would be required to meet the size, weight, and power (SWAP) requirements set by the exoskeleton's limitations. Filtering noise with ultrasound is a difficult task as he discussed, but a mobile small form factor ultrasound device will be difficult to design. Finally, further research will also be on mapping individual recovery plans for patients based on their patterns of brain activity. Based on the brain activity of an individual, different therapies may be required to rehabilitate those who are impacted by CP.

T. Bulea, “Neurorobotics for Pediatric Rehabilitation: Novel Strategies, Assessments, and Effects,”  presented at the 2024-25 Research Colloquium Series, E. Antunano, Ed.,  UW Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering, Nov. 14, 2024.